---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Fair Compensation

:::note

The Fair Compensation pillar is currently in the planning and proof of 
concept stage. Compensation sharing has not yet been implemented in the 
Kestrel substructure.

:::

Kestrel is designed to compensate contributors for the value they bring to a 
project. The [pay-go model](paygo) creates a natural revenue stream for 
projects as they attract users. On top of the base-layer costs of running a 
service, Kestrel also defines a premium for each project. Therefore a 
percentage of the revenue generated by that project goes to the contributors 
to the project itself.

## Beneficiaries

Who are the potential beneficiaries of such an income sharing model? 
Obviously the core contributors deserve their share, but others who have 
helped to advance or popularize the project are also deserving. Furthermore, 
any dependent open source projects the application makes use of should also 
be considered for compensation.

In many case, a new Kestrel project might effectively be a fork of an 
existing open source project, with minor modifications made to adapt it to 
the Kestrel substructure. In this case, the appropriate income sharing might 
be for 90%+ of the income to be redirected to the creators of the original 
open source project itself - even though they may not even be aware of the 
Kestrel substructure. It is our intention to support such use cases, and in 
this way we hope to help sustain open source software development in general -
not just for projects that run on the Kestrel substructure. 

## Defining Premiums & Income Shares

How are premiums and income shares defined? There are a few different models 
to consider:

### Self-Defined Compensation

A simple starting point would be to allow creators to define an initial
premium and income sharing split. There are clear downsides to this model
however. Someone could simply fork someone else's project, decrease the
premium to make it more attractive to
users, and then define all income to go solely to themselves, with no
recognition of the original creators' contributions.

### Substructure.one-Defined Compensation

In this model, [substructure.one](https://substructure.one) (the organization 
behind Kestrel) determines
the compensation model. This is the current model we use for compensation.

In this model, only projects that have a well-defined sponsorship model
(typically via [Github Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors) or
[Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/)) are eligible for compensation.
Compensation rates are determined via a holistic but admittedly ad hoc
assessment.

### Community-Based Compensation

An improved model would allow users to provide feedback on what a fair 
premium and appropriate income shares should be for a given project. However 
this would require active involvement from a large base of users, and would 
need significant efforts to prevent gaming of the system.

### Market-Based Compensation

Prediction markets have long been hailed as a way to combine the wisdom of 
the crowd with market incentives to make more accurate predictions. One 
compensation
model would allow users to "predict" what an appropriate income share and/or 
premium should be for a given project, use the net consensus from those 
predictions to define the actual shares/premiums, and then in some way 
reward users whose predictions were close to the final result. In this sense 
it would be a "self-fulfilling prophecy" form of a market.

This approach would need to be carefully designed to prevent abuse. It may be
more of an interesting thought exercise than an actually practical model.
